
# Fire Flutter

A free, open source, complete, rapid development package for creating Social apps, Chat apps, Community(Forum) apps, and much more based on Flutter and Firebase.

- Complete features.\
  This package has complete features (see Features below) that most of apps require.

- `Simple, easy and the right way`.\
  We want it to be deadly simple, yet right way for ourselves and for the developers in the world.
  We know when it gets complicated, our lives would get even more complicated.

- Real time.\
  We design it to be real time. All the events like post and comment creation, voting(like, dislike), deletion would appears on all the user's phone immediately after the event.

- This project, as of January 2022, is under heavy revision to match the latest version of Flutter and Firebae. To see old version, refer [v0.1 branch](https://github.com/thruthesky/fireflutter/tree/v0.1).

- This project would be a good example for the first time flutter developers.


Table of contents

- [Fire Flutter](#fire-flutter)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
  - [Running the example](#running-the-example)
  - [Creating a new project](#creating-a-new-project)
  - [Firebase installation](#firebase-installation)
- [Packages](#packages)
- [User](#user)
  - [User Installation](#user-installation)
- [Chat](#chat)
  - [Chat Installation](#chat-installation)
  - [Chat test](#chat-test)
  - [Chat Document Structure](#chat-document-structure)

# Features

- User
  - User registration is done with Firebase Flutter UI.


- Chat

  - A complete chat functionality which includes
    - Group chat
    - Inviting users
    - Blocking users
    - Kickout users
    - Changing settings of chat room
  - Expect more to come.


- Push notification



# Installation


## Running the example

- Do the [Firebase installation](#firebase-installation).
- Git fork the [fireflutter](https://github.com/thruthesky/fireflutter).



## Creating a new project

- Do the [Firebase installation](#firebase-installation).
- Edit platform version to `platform :ios, '10.0'` in Podfile.

## Firebase installation
- Refer the instructions of [FlutterFire Overview](https://firebase.flutter.dev/docs/overview)


- Download ios app's `GoogleService-Info.plist`. And save it under `<root>/example/ios/Runnder`, Then open Xcode and drag it under Runner.

- Note, if you enable `Firebase Realtime Database`, you have to re-download and update the `GoogleService-Info.plist`.
  - You may need to update the `GoogleService-Info.plist` after enabling other features of the Firebase.



# Packages

- We use [Getx](https://pub.dev/packages/get) for route & state management.
- We use [FlutterFire UI](https://firebase.flutter.dev/docs/ui/overview) for Firebase auth and other UI examples.
  - You may build your own UI.




# User

## User Installation

- Do [Firebase installation](#firebase-installation)
- Enable Email/Password Sign-In method to login with email and password.
- Enable Google Sign-In method and add the following in `Info.plist` to login with Google account
```xml
<!-- Google Sign-in Section -->
<key>CFBundleURLTypes</key>
<array>
	<dict>
		<key>CFBundleTypeRole</key>
		<string>Editor</string>
		<key>CFBundleURLSchemes</key>
		<array>
			<!-- TODO Replace this value: -->
			<!-- Copied from GoogleService-Info.plist key REVERSED_CLIENT_ID -->
			<string>com.googleusercontent.apps.------------------------</string>
		</array>
	</dict>
</array>
<!-- End of the Google Sign-in Section -->
```


# Chat

## Chat Installation

- Do [Firebase installation](#firebase-installation)
- Do [User installation](#user-installation)

## Chat test

There are chat buttons on the home screen. To test the chat functionality do the following;

- Add 4 users as following with same password `12345a` (It's just easy to remember.you may put different password if you want.)
  - `apple@test.com`
  - `banana@test.com`
  - `cherry@test.com`
  - `durian@test.com`


- Put the uid of the 4 users in `<root>/example/lib/screens/home/home.screen.dart`.


## Chat Document Structure

- `/chat` is the chat folder
- `/chat/<uid>__<uid>` is the room id.
- `/chat/<uid>__<uid>/<push-id>` is the message id. The message id is generated by `push()` method.
- The properties are;

```json
{
  "message": ... the message ...,
  "uid": ... the user uid who sent the message ...,
  "timestamp": ... the timestamp ...,
}
```